---
title: Assignment 1
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 1

### Initial hunch/idea for this assignment

The idea that I will be exploring during my two interviews this week is the toxicity and addictiveness of social media nowadays. Recently, I have noticed how often I find myself looking to social media for entertainment, and how unhappy my interactions and content on social media can make me - and I am not even a very heavy user or creator of some of these platforms. Therefore, I will be exploring how to make a social media platform that is less toxic and addictive for young adults today.

### Interview 1: Isabela Gonzalez-Lawand

The first interview I conducted was with Isabela Gonzalez-Lawand, a student and content creator at Harvard University. For this first interview, my goal was to gain insight on how content creators (whether they be famous or not) interact with their social media.\
\
I first asked her several questions about her social media usage, including how long she spent on social media for different purposes, like professional purposes (she makes money off of her videos), personal (messaging friends, looking at friends and family's content), or entertainment-based (scrolling, watching funny or entertaining videos); I noted that most of her time spent on these apps, including Instagram, Tiktok, Snapchat, and Tumblr, was either for entertainment purposes, to keep up with friends and family, or to actually create content (especially on Tiktok). I was aiming to learn a bit more about the content creation side of this during this interview since I myself don't really create content, and I noted some things that were pretty demonstrative of the toxicity of these social media platforms. First, she recalled a period of time in which she was getting pretty extreme hate comments. Even more interestingly, she recalled that getting these hate comments did not make her use the app less; if anything, she said that it would make her watch other people's content a lot more, although she did post a few less videos because of these comments. I think this speaks to the toxicity of the comparing that a lot of young adults find themselves doing when they are creating, or even just consuming content, but also to the high addictivity of Instagram and Tiktok, since you would think having repeated negative experiences on these apps would make you use them less, not more. She even mentioned at one point during her interview that she "felt more entertained when on {social media apps}, but happier when {she} wasn't on them". Finally, we discussed productivity, and how social media affected both her work and academics; she explained how she knows social media slows her down, as she takes several breaks whether it be during work shifts or academic work, but still uses it pretty consistently on the job and when studying, especially during times where she posts content herself. In particular, she said that no matter the context (including a professional or academic setting), if she posted within the past couple of hours, she would check her phone consistently to watch people interacting with her posts. \
\
All in all, I think my main takeaway from this interview was how addictive and even toxic both Instagram and Tiktok specifically can be, in particular for content creators, who are very often pushed to compare themselves to other creators, and in turn make users compare themselves to them. 

### Interview 2: Maximiliano Ramirez

The second interview I held was with Maximiliano Ramirez, who is a Senior at MIT studying Chemical Engineering. For this second interview, I was looking to speak to someone who does not create content that is meant to make money or go "viral"; I wanted someone who just generally used social media as more of a source of entertainment and interaction with their peers.\
\
I asked Maximiliano similar questions to what I asked Isabela, but with more of a consumer perspective. He mentioned mostly just using Instagram and Youtube as social media platforms, and both for about two hours per day. One important thing I took away from my conversation with him was that a lot of young adults these days use sending content on social media (for example, reels on Instagram), as their main form of communication with one another. From a perspective of a consumer and not a producer, I noticed that he mentioned that although he does not himself leave hate on creators' content, some of the hateful messages did make him laugh, and that he would often like negative or even hateful comments that were left on people's videos (especially Instagram, not so much Youtube). Similarly to in my conversation with Isabela, he mentioned a surprising fact, that when he felt negative emotions such as stress, he would use scrolling on Instagram as a way to distract himself, which would in turn stress him out even more (whether it be because of the content, or because of the fact that he was losing time and productivity because of the scrolling). He expressed a lot of habits that were similar to a lot of people I know that use instagram: opening their phone and then forgetting what they were about to do and going to Instagram instead, closing th app just to immediately reopen it, scrolling as soon as they wake up or right before going to sleep, scrolling at work or when trying to study/do assignments, and even recalled having to delete the app altogether during a boring period of his life where he found himself scrolling for the larger part of his day. A funny anecdote from this interview is him saying that our conversation was "like therapy" because he was realizing a lot about his habits around social media.\
\
From this interview, I am once again taking away that social media is extremely addictive, and that a lot of students (and probably professionals) are aware that their scrolling and social media usage in general is either unhealthy or hinders their productivity and relationships, but because it is such a huge means of communication and connection between young people nowadays, have a very hard time getting away from it.

### Design ideas to explore

1) Limiting likes : from the content creator perspective, one way to limit both the addictiveness of social media after posting and the toxicity of comparing oneself to others and receiving very negative comments, one design idea would be to not have like counts visible at all. Maybe you could still like or react a certain way to a video so that the algorithm of the app classifies it as something you like (want to see more of), or not, but wouldn't be visible to the typical scroller.

2) Adding schedule input : If this app is specifically geared towards students or other people looking to be productive and not be hindered by social media, maybe a feature where you can input your schedule (work hours, classes, time with friends, etc), and where the app somehow limited usage and notifications during this time or disabled it altogether would be nice.

3) Classifying types of content : To limit comparing, and this feeling of negativity a lot of users feel when scrolling, maybe users could have different reactions to different content or classify the posts they see in different categories if they appreciate the content. The app could suggest similar types of content in different sections of the page, so that depending on how the user is feeling, they can choose the content they really need right now. For example, I'm sad right now. I would like to see funny cat videos, and not sad breakup videos or photoshopped photos that will bring my confidence down even lower. Or, for example, I really want to workout today, I want to see motivational videos.

4) Emphasize the communication aspect of the app: Since social media videos and memes are such a big means of communication these days, have a more interactive way of viewing videos (maybe shared feeds or for you pages instead of just chats).