---
title: P6 - User Testing & Final Release
layout: doc
---

# P6 - User Testing & Final Release


User Test \#1 Summary:

Anna goes to the gym on occasion but has “never taken fitness seriously enough to use a tracking app”. When prompted to make a forum post, she had trouble realizing she needed to navigate to ‘Threads’ to do so, signifying we could do better at speaking the user’s language. It was easy for Anna to make a forum post once she found where to go. Anna was a bit confused about the difference between gym posts and forum posts, but was able to create a gym post easily with a provided Google Drive link. When looking to make a forum response, Anna effectively used the search bar and quickly made a reply. Anna quickly navigated to the messages tab when prompted to send a workout. Anna tried sending a task with a message which caused the message to not send, showing the option to send a message with a task should be removed. Anna found setting a goal and creating her own task to be simple and easy. She did this with a smile on her face. When asked about this during the debrief, she stated that she thought the goal feature was exciting and stated this feature is particularly good for beginners like her. She expanded upon this stating she sometimes feels unsure about what goals she should be setting and how she should modify her workouts accordingly. Anna’s thoughts during the debrief can be best summarized as the app seems to be very useful but could use some more guidance and better language in certain areas. Anna appreciated the extra guidance on the leaderboard and expressed that was one of the features she understood and liked the most.

Flaws/Opportunities for Improvement

* Tasks do not send if a user types anything in the send message bar  
  * Send Message input is still visible when sending a task, when this is filled the tasks don’t end up being sent  
  * Solution: The message input must be invisible when the add task button is clicked to ensure users do not attach a message to a task message  
  * Level: Physical  
  * Severity: Major  
* Renamed threads to ‘Forum”  
  * When guided to make a forum post, the user did not know where to go.  
  * Solution: Renaming our threads tab to forum to make this feature more obvious to new users  
  * Level: Linguistic  
  * Severity: Minor  
* Forum Post vs Gym Post  
  * There is not a proper distinction between forum posts and gym posts and users are not given enough information on when to use which  
  * Guides can be implemented at the top of a page to tell users what the purpose of each post is and when they should use each  
  * Level: Conceptual  
  * Severity: Moderate



User Test \#2 Summary:

Caroline was a randomly selected user. When prompted to make a forum post, she had to check out different pages before realizing that the “Threads” page was the forum, signaling a gap in communication between the interface and the user. Once she found the page, she had no trouble creating the forum thread. She also had no trouble finding and creating a post when given a sample google drive link. When given the task to find, comment, and upvote on a thread, she quickly used the search function to find the relevant thread and perform those actions. Another gap found was when using the Messaging feature, as she described the message instead of sending an actual routine for others to add. When asked about this during the debrief, she said that she didn’t even notice that there was a send task button, which led her to assume she had to describe it. Finally, she also didn’t find the tracker page quickly, but once she did, she quickly created a new task. During her debrief, she said that she had no idea that the tracker page was where she manages her tasks until she opened the page. Summarizing the rest of the debrief, Caroline found BeFit “somewhat intuitive” to use, enjoying how easy it was to use the posts and forum. However, she did wish that the search bar would also give her partial results, as she was unsure if the user “claire” was available when searching for it. Another point of friction she felt was with the threads, as she would have liked to see who was the author for each thread before opening them.

Opportunities for Improvement:

* Renaming Tracker to Goals or Tasks  
  * When asked to set a goal, the user had to search the site.  
  * Solutions: Rename Tracker to Goals or Tasks  
  * Level: Linguistic  
  * Severity: Minor  
* Make sending tasks more noticeable  
  * When asked to send a task, the user instead sends a message describing it instead of a task itself.  
  * Solution: redesign the “send tasks” button to be more noticeable, possibly by moving near the send button and making it more visible.  
  * Level: Physical  
  * Severity: Major  
* Partial matches for author search  
  * When looking for the thread by “claire”, the user reported that they were unsure if they had typed in the user due to lack of feedback.  
  * Solution: Have the search bar request and provide partial matches for the username typed in  
  * Level: Conceptual  
  * Severity: Minor

User Test \#3 Summary:

Maxwell is an MIT undergrad selected for user testing. He does not go to the gym but is familiar with a lot of the concepts on our app. When asked to make a post on the post page, he had trouble adding an image to the post. Initially, he tried to skip adding an image but the image field is required to make a post. After realizing he had to include a post, he completely missed the text in the input box that said to enter a Google Drive link. He tried clicking the arrows on the box and then started looking on other parts of the page for a way to submit an image for the post. This indicates that the text directions sayings to submit a Google drive link are not prominent enough. When on the forums page, he didn’t realize the threads were clickable since they weren’t highlighted when the mouse hovered over them. Similarly, he was confused when he initially opened the page since no thread automatically showed up. He was expecting the top thread to automatically show up without having to click on it. Also, when I asked him to ask a question on a forum, he was not sure if the “New Thread” button was the way to do it. This is likely due to the fact that the term “Thread” did not match “Forum”, even though they refer to the same concept. Lastly, the user was very confused by the tracking page. When asked to set a goal, he easily found the box in the top left that said to set a new goal. However, it was not obvious to him to click the “set goal” button after selecting his goal from the dropdown. Also, he was a bit overwhelmed by the amount of information on the tracking page and did not even scroll down to look at the tasks graph. He was not sure what the connections were between the different parts of the tracking page and was looking for some sort of information or directions on the page. 

List of flaws / areas for improvement:

* Difficulty adding image  
  * Make the text instructions more prominent or add a little “i” icon for users to click for more information/instructions  
* Difficulties with forums  
  * Be consistent with terminology, either using “thread” everywhere or “forum” everywhere  
  * Add some sort of informational box indicating what the threads/forums are for  
  * Highlight the threads in the thread list when hovered over so that users clearly know that they can be clicked  
  * Automatically show the first thread when the user initially opens the page  
* Tracking page issues  
  * Automatically update the goal when the user selects a goal from the dropdown, rather than making them click “set goal” after selecting one  
  * Organize the tracking page in such a way that clearly separates the different features or separate it into multiple pages  
  * Condense the features of the page so that they are all visible at once or include a button saying “show task progress graph” so that the user can choose to collapse and show the information  
  * Include information at the top of the tracking page giving the users a brief overview of what can be done on the page

Design Revision:  
Previous Design Revisions:

* Messages  
  * We decided to include a text messenger rather than an inbox so users can easily converse about topics and send multiple tasks within the same conversation  
* Sending Tasks  
  * We decided to only allow users to send tasks through the messenger page through the ‘add task’ button so that tasks are personalized for each user, which is important for beginners. This was done since we wanted a community focused app, so users can have higher interactivity between each other instead of just creating their own exercises.  
* Posting concept  
  * Originally, we were planning on having forum posts and workout posts on the same page. We chose to separate them since we want users to easily search for forum posts and ask questions on a page separate from the workout posts with pictures.   
* Verifying posts  
  * We made it so that users cannot verify (upvote) their own posts. This makes more sense because your score on the leaderboard gets updated based on upvotes, which means that users could upvote their own posts for more points.  
* Points  
  * Posts and threads that other users find relevant should promote their author. Points are awarded for verified posts and threads (another user upvotes), and for popular posts/threads. Users are also rewarded for verifying.  
* Leaderboard  
  * We decided to display the leaderboard on all pages to make it a more prominent feature.   
* Threads  
  * Since threads are for discussion between people, we decided to make them only accept text input.  
  * Threads that are relevant will get more upvotes, which means that we should reward those accounts by giving them points.

New design revisions:

* Navigation Bar  
  * Changed navigation bar to include a posts tab so that it is visible, rather than just being accessible through clicking the name of the app (as it is the home page). This was done because it was not obvious to users that the home page was the posts, and so it was sometimes difficult for people to figure out how to get back to posts.  
* Threads and Posts concepts  
  * The thread page and posts page use the same concept (posting), so when a thread was created it would show up in the posts, and vice versa. We filtered out threads to be all posts with no image and posts to be all posts with an image (since an image is mandatory when a user creates a post, and not an option when a user creates a thread), so this issue would not occur.  
* Task Message Bug  
  * Previously, when there was text in the send message input and the user was trying to send a task, this would raise an error due to incompatibility with the backend. Originally users were supposed to be able to send a text message with a task attachment, however now we send either a text or task message to prevent the bug. The inputs for task and text messages are separated to only allow users to send one at a time.  
* Task sending visibility  
  * We noticed the “Add Task” button was not very visible to users during our user tests, so we changed it to be the same color as the other buttons instead of the light grey.

